 FORMAT FOR NEW ENTRIES Try to conform to the format already being used -- 70
character lines, 3-character indentations, pronunciations in parentheses,
etymologies in brackets, single-space after def'n numbers and word classes,
etc. Stick to the standard ASCII character set. We are looking to expand the
file's range of technical specialties covered. There are doubtless rich veins
of jargon yet untapped in the scientific computing, graphics, and networking
hacker communities; also in numerical analysis, computer architectures and
VLSI design, language design, and many other related fields. Send us your
slang! We are *not* interested in straight technical terms explained by
textbooks or technical dictionaries unless an entry illuminates "underground"
meanings or aspects not covered by official histories. We are also not
interested in "joke" entries -- there is a lot of humor in the file but it
must flow naturally out of the explanations of what hackers do and how they
think. It is OK to submit items of slang you have originated if they have
spread to the point of being used by people who are not personally acquainted
with you. We prefer items to be attested by independent submission from two
different sites. The slang file will be regularly maintained and re-posted
from now on and will include a version number. Read it, pass it around,
contribute -- this is *your* monument! NOTES ON JARGON CONSTRUCTION There are
some standard methods of jargonification which became established quite early
(i.e before 1970), spreading from such sources as the MIT Model Railroad
Club, the PDP-1 SPACEWAR hackers and John McCarthy's original crew of
LISPers. These include: Verb doubling: a standard construction is to double a
verb and use it as a comment on what the implied subject does. Often used to
terminate a conversation. Typical examples involve WIN, LOSE, HACK, FLAME,
BARF, CHOMP: "The disk heads just crashed." "Lose, lose." "Mostly he just
talked about his @#!!$% crock. Flame, flame." "Boy, what a bagbiter! Chomp,
chomp!" Soundalike slang: similar to Cockney rhyming slang. Often made up on
the spur of the moment. Standard examples: Boston Globe => Boston Glob Herald
American => Horrid (Harried) American New York Times => New York Slime Prime
Time => Slime Time government property - do not duplicate (seen on keys) =>
government duplicity - do not propagate Often the substitution will be made
in such a way as to slip in a standard jargon word: Dr. Dobb's Journal => Dr.
Frob's Journal Margaret Jacks Hall => Marginal Hacks Hall Data General =>
Dirty Genitals The -P convention: turning a word into a question by appending
the syllable "P"; from the LISP convention of appending the letter "P" to
denote a predicate (a Boolean-valued function). The question should expect a
yes/no answer, though it needn't. (see T and NIL.) At dinnertime: "Foodp?"
"Yeah, I'm pretty hungry." or "T!" "State-of-the-world-P?" (Straight) "I'm
about to go home." (Humorous) "Yes, the world has a state." [One of the best
of these is a Gosperism (i.e., due to Bill Gosper). When we were at a Chinese
restaurant, he wanted to know whether someone would like to share with him a
two-person-sized bowl of soup. His inquiry was: "Split-p soup?" --GLS]
Peculiar nouns: MIT AI hackers love to take various words and add the wrong
endings to them to make nouns and verbs, often by extending a standard rule
to nonuniform cases. Examples: porous => porosity generous => generosity
Ergo: mysterious => mysteriosity ferrous => ferrocity Other examples:
winnitude, disgustitude, hackification. Also, note that all nouns can be
verbed. eg: "All nouns can be verbed", "I'll mouse it up", "Hang on while I
clipboard it over", "I'm grepping the files". English as a whole is already
heading in this direction (towards pure-positional grammar like Chinese);
hackers are simply a bit ahead of the curve. Spoken inarticulations: Words
such as "mumble", "sigh", and "groan" are spoken in places where their
referent might more naturally be used. It has been suggested that this usage
derives from the impossibility of representing such noises in a com link.
Another expression sometimes heard is "complain!", meaning "I have a
complaint!" Hacker speech style: Features extremely precise diction, careful
word choice, a relatively large working vocabulary, and relatively little use
of contractions or "street slang". Dry humor, irony, puns, and a mildly
flippant attitude are highly valued -- but an underlying seriousness and
intelligence is essential. One should use just enough jargon to communicate
precisely and identify oneself as "in the culture"; overuse and a breathless,
excessively gung-ho attitude are considered tacky and the mark of a loser.
This speech style (a variety of the precisionist English normally spoken by
scientists, design engineers, and academics in technical fields) is fairly
constant everywhere. Of the five listed constructions, verb doubling,
peculiar noun formations, and (especially!) spoken inarticulations have
become quite general; but rhyming slang is still largely confined to MIT and
other large universities, and the P convention is found only where LISPers
flourish. One final note. Many words in hacker jargon have to be understood
as members of sets of comparatives. This is especially true of the adjectives
and nouns used to describe the beauty and functional quality of code. Here is
an approximately correct spectrum: MONSTROSITY BRAIN-DAMAGE BUG SCREW LOSE
MISFEATURE CROCK KLUGE HACK WIN FEATURE ELEGANCE PERFECTION The last is never
actually attained. PRONUNCIATION GUIDE Pronunciation keys are provided in the
jargon listing for all entries which are neither dictionary words pronounced
as in standard English nor obvious compounds of same. These guides use the
following simple system: 1) Syllables are hyphen-separated, except that an
apostrophe or back-apostrophe follows each accented syllable (the back
apostrophe marks a secondary accent in some words of four or more syllables).
2) Consonants are pronounced as in American English. The letter "g" is always
hard (as in "got" rather than "giant"); "ch" is soft ("church" rather than
"chemist"). The letter "j" is the sound that occurs twice in "judge". The
letter "s" is always as in "pass", never a z sound (but it is sometimes
doubled at the end of syllables to emphasize this). The digraph `dh' is the
th of `these clothes', not of `thick'. 3) Vowels are represented as follows:
a back, that ah father, palm ar far, mark aw flaw, caught ay bake, rain e
less, men ee easy, ski eir their, software i trip, hit ie life, sky o cot,
top oh flow, sew oo loot, through or more, door ow out, how oy boy, coin uh
but, some u put, foot y yet yoo few [y]oo oo with optional fronting as in
`news' (noos or nyoos) An at-sign is used for the "schwa" sound of unstressed
or occluded vowels (the one that is often written with an upside-down "e").
The schwa vowel is omitted in syllables containing vocalic r, l, m or n; that
is, "kitten" and "color" would be rendered "kit'n" and "kul'r". UNIX
CONVENTIONS References such as `malloc(3)' and `patch(1)' are to UNIX
facilities (some of which, such as patch(1), are actually freeware
distributed over USENET). The UNIX manuals use `foo(n)' to refer to item foo
in section n) of the manual, where n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls, n=3
is C library routines, n=4 is file formats, n=5 is a miscellany, n=6 is
games, n=7 is device drivers, and n=8 is system administration tools. THE
JARGON ITSELF = = @BEGIN [primarily CMU] with @End, used humorously in
writing to indicate a context or to remark on the surrounded text. From the
SCRIBE command of the same name. For example: @Begin(Flame) Predicate logic
is the only good programming language. Anyone who would use anything else is
an idiot. Also, computers should be tredecimal instead of binary. @End(Flame)
On USENET, this construct would more frequently be rendered as <FLAME ON> and
<FLAME OFF>. /DEV/NULL [from the UNIX null device, used as a data sink] n. A
notional `black hole' in any information space being discussed, used or
referred to. A controversial posting, for example, might end "Kudos to
rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null/". see BIT BUCKET. = A = ABEND
(ab'end) n. Abnormal termination (of software); crash; lossage. Derives from
an error message on the IBM 360, but has passed into more general use, esp.
at mainframe shops.