 Article 36 of comp.doc: >From: brian@sdcsvax.UCSD.EDU (Brian Kantor)
Subject: GLOSSARY OF JARGON Message-ID: <4014@sdcsvax.UCSD.EDU> Date: 5 Oct
87 16:46:56 GMT Organization: UCSD wombat breeding society Approved:
brian@cyberpunk.ucsd.edu --- GLOSSARY OF JARGON Compiled by Guy L. Steele
Jr., Raphael Finkel, Donald Woods, Geoff Goodfellow and Mark Crispin, with
assistance from the MIT and Stanford AI communities and Worcester Polytechnic
Institute. Some contributions were submitted via the ARPAnet from
miscellaneous sites. Verb doubling: a standard construction is to double a
verb and use it as a comment on what the implied subject does. Often used to
terminate a conversation. Typical examples involve WIN, LOSE, HACK, FLAME,
BARF, CHOMP: "The disk heads just crashed." "Lose, lose." "Mostly he just
talked about his --- crock. Flame, flame." "Boy, what a bagbiter! Chomp,
chomp!" Soundalike slang: similar to Cockney rhyming slang. Often made up on
the spur of the moment. Standard examples: Boston Globe -> Boston Glob Herald
American -> Horrid (Harried) American New York Times -> New York Slime
historical reasons -> hysterical raisins government property - do not
duplicate (seen on keys) -> government duplicity - do not propagate Often the
substitution will be made in such a way as to slip in a standard jargon word:
Dr. Dobb's Journal -> Dr. Frob's Journal creeping featurism -> feeping
creaturism Margaret Jacks Hall -> Marginal Hacks Hall The -P convention:
turning a word into a question by append- ing the syllable "P"; from the LISP
convention of appending the letter "P" to denote a predicate (a
Boolean-valued function). The question should expect a yes/no answer, though
it needn't. (see T and NIL.) - 2 - At dinnertime: "Foodp?" "Yeah, I'm pretty
hungry." or "T!" "State-of-the-world-P?" (Straight) "I'm about to go home."
(Humorous) "Yes, the world has a state." [One of the best of these is a
Gosperism (i.e., due to Bill Gosper). When we were at a Chinese restaurant,
he wanted to know whether someone would like to share with him a
two-person-sized bowl of soup. His inquiry was: "Split-p soup?" --GLS]
Peculiar nouns: MIT AI hackers love to take various words and add the wrong
endings to them to make nouns and verbs, often by extending a standard rule
to nonuniform cases. Examples: porous => porosity generous => generosity
Ergo: mysterious => mysteriosity ferrous => ferocity Other examples:
winnitude, disgustitude, hackification. Spoken inarticulations: Words such as
"mumble," "sigh," and "groan" are spoken in places where their referent might
more naturally be used. It has been suggested that this usage derives from
the impossibility of representing such noises in a com link. Another
expression sometimes heard is "complain!" @BEGIN (primarily CMU) with @END,
used humorously in writing to indicate a context or to remark on the
surrounded text. >From the SCRIBE command of the same name. For example:
@Begin(Flame) Predicate logic is the only good programming language. Anyone
who would use anything else is an idiot. Also, computers should be tredecimal
instead of binary. @End(Flame) ANGLE BRACKETS (primarily MIT) n. Either of
the characters "<" and ">". see BROKET.