 :awk: /awk/ 1. n. [Unix techspeak] An interpreted language for massaging
text data developed by Alfred Aho, Peter Weinberger, and Brian Kernighan (the
name derives from their initials). It is characterized by C-like syntax, a
declaration-free approach to variable typing and declarations, associative
arrays, and field-oriented text processing. see also {Perl}. 2. n. Editing
term for an expression awkward to manipulate through normal {regexp}
facilities (for example, one containing a {newline}). 3. vt. To process data
using awk(1). B B1FF B5 back door backbone cabal backbone site backgammon
background backreference backronym backward combatability BAD Bad and Wrong
Bad Thing bag on the side bagbiter bagbiting baggy pantsing balloonian
variable bamf banana problem bandwidth bang bang on bang path banner banner
ad banner site bar bare metal barf barfmail barfulation barfulous barn barney
baroque BASIC batbelt batch bathtub curve Batman factor baud baz bazaar
bboard BBS BCPL BDFL beam beanie key beep Befunge beige toaster bells and
whistles bells whistles and gongs benchmark Berkeley Quality Software
Berzerkeley beta BFI BI bible BiCapitalization biff big iron Big Red Switch
Big Room big win big-endian bignum bigot bikeshedding binary four bit bit
bashing bit bucket bit decay bit rot bit twiddling bit-paired keyboard bitblt
bits bitty box bixie black art black hat black hole black magic Black Screen
of Death blammo blargh blast blat bletch bletcherous blinkenlights blit
blitter blivet bloatware BLOB block blog Bloggs Family blogosphere
blogrolling blow an EPROM blow away blow out blow past blow up BLT blue box
Blue Glue blue goo Blue Screen of Death blue wire blurgle BNF boa board boat
anchor bob bodge BOF BOFH bogo-sort bogometer BogoMIPS bogon bogon filter
bogon flux bogosity bogotify bogue out bogus Bohr bug boink bomb
bondage-and-discipline language bonk/oif book titles boot Borg borken bot
bottom feeder bottom-post bottom-up implementation bounce bounce message
boustrophedon box boxed comments boxen boxology bozotic brain dump brain fart
brain-damaged brain-dead braino brainwidth bread crumbs break break-even
point breath-of-life packet breedle Breidbart Index brick bricktext bring X
to its knees brittle broadcast storm broken broken arrow broken-ring network
BrokenWindows broket Brooks's Law brown-paper-bag bug browser BRS brute force
brute force and ignorance BSD BSOD BUAF BUAG bubble sort bucky bits buffer
chuck buffer overflow bug bug-compatible bug-for-bug compatible
bug-of-the-month club bulletproof bullschildt bump burble buried treasure
burn a CD burn-in period burst page busy-wait buzz buzzword-compliant BWQ by
hand byte byte sex bytesexual Bzzzt! Wrong.