 :blinkenlights: /blink'*n-li:tz/ n. Front-panel diagnostic lights on a
computer, esp. a {dinosaur}. Derives from the last word of the famous
blackletter-Gothic sign in mangled pseudo-German that once graced about half
the computer rooms in the English-speaking world. One version ran in its
entirety as follows: ACHTUNG! ALLES LOOKENSPEEPERS! Das computermachine ist
nicht fuer gefingerpoken und mittengrabben. Ist easy schnappen der
springenwerk, blowenfusen und poppencorken mit spitzensparken. Ist nicht fuer
gewerken bei das dumpkopfen. Das rubbernecken sichtseeren keepen das
cotten-pickenen hans in das pockets muss; relaxen und watchen das
blinkenlichten. This silliness dates back at least as far as 1959 at Stanford
University and had already gone international by the early 1960s, when it was
reported at London University's ATLAS computing site. There are several
variants of it in circulation, some of which actually do end with the word
`blinkenlights'. In an amusing example of turnabout-is-fair-play, German
hackers have developed their own versions of the blinkenlights poster in
fractured English, one of which is reproduced here: ATTENTION This room is
fullfilled mit special electronische equippment. Fingergrabbing and pressing
the cnoeppkes from the computers is allowed for die experts only! So all the
"lefthanders" stay away and do not disturben the brainstorming von here
working intelligencies. Otherwise you will be out thrown and kicked
anderswhere! Also: please keep still and only watchen astaunished the
blinkenlights. see also {geef}. Old-time hackers sometimes get nostalgic for
blinkenlights because they were so much more fun to look at than a blank
panel. Sadly, very few computers still have them (the three LEDs on a PC
keyboard certainly don't count). The obvious reasons (cost of wiring, cost of
front-panel cutouts, almost nobody needs or wants to interpret
machine-register states on the fly anymore) are only part of the story.
Another part of it is that radio-frequency leakage from the lamp wiring was
beginning to be a problem as far back as transistor machines. But the most
fundamental fact is that there are very few signals slow enough to blink an
LED these days! With slow CPUs, you could watch the bus register or
instruction counter tick, but at 33/66/150MHz it's all a blur.