 :bug: n. An unwanted and unintended property of a program or piece of
hardware, esp. one that causes it to malfunction. Antonym of {feature}.
Examples: "There's a bug in the editor: it writes things out backwards." "The
system crashed because of a hardware bug." "Fred is a winner, but he has a
few bugs" (i.e., Fred is a good guy, but he has a few personality problems).
Historical note: Some have said this term came from telephone company usage,
in which "bugs in a telephone cable" were blamed for noisy lines, but this
appears to be an incorrect folk etymology. Admiral Grace Hopper (an early
computing pioneer better known for inventing {COBOL}) liked to tell a story
in which a technician solved a persistent {glitch} in the Harvard Mark II
machine by pulling an actual insect out from between the contacts of one of
its relays, and she subsequently promulgated {bug} in its hackish sense as a
joke about the incident (though, as she was careful to admit, she was not
there when it happened). For many years the logbook associated with the
incident and the actual bug in question (a moth) sat in a display case at the
Naval Surface Warfare Center. The entire story, with a picture of the logbook
and the moth taped into it, is recorded in the `Annals of the History of
Computing', Vol. 3, No. 3 (July 1981), pp. 285--286. The text of the log
entry (from September 9, 1945), reads "1545 Relay #70 Panel F (moth) in
relay. First actual case of bug being found". This wording seems to establish
that the term was already in use at the time in its current specific sense
--- and Hopper herself reports that the term `bug' was regularly applied to
problems in radar electronics during WWII. Indeed, the use of `bug' to mean
an industrial defect was already established in Thomas Edison's time, and
`bug' in the sense of an disruptive event goes back to Shakespeare! In the
first edition of Samuel Johnson's dictionary one meaning of `bug' is "A
frightful object; a walking spectre"; this is traced to `bugbear', a Welsh
term for a variety of mythological monster which (to complete the circle) has
recently been reintroduced into the popular lexicon through fantasy
role-playing games. In any case, in jargon the word almost never refers to
insects. Here is a plausible conversation that never actually happened:
"There is a bug in this ant farm!" "What do you mean? I don't see any ants in
it." "That's the bug." [There has been a widespread myth that the original
bug was moved to the Smithsonian, and an earlier version of this entry so
asserted. A correspondent who thought to check discovered that the bug was
not there. While investigating this in late 1990, your editor discovered that
the NSWC still had the bug, but had unsuccessfully tried to get the
Smithsonian to accept it --- and that the present curator of their History of
American Technology Museum didn't know this and agreed that it would make a
worthwhile exhibit. It was moved to the Smithsonian in mid-1991. Thus, the
process of investigating the original-computer-bug bug fixed it in an
entirely unexpected way, by making the myth true! --- ESR] [1992 update: the
plot thickens! A usually reliable source reports having seen The Bug at the
Smithsonian in 1978. I am unable to reconcile the conflicting histories I
have been offered, and merely report this fact here. --- ESR.]