 COBOL fingers: /koh'bol fing'grs/ n. Reported from Sweden, a (hypothetical)
disease one might get from programming in COBOL. The language requires code
verbose beyond all reason. Programming too much in COBOL causes the fingers
to wear down (by endless typing), until short stubs remain. This deformity is
called "COBOL fingers". "I refuse to type in all that source code again; it
would give me COBOL fingers!" code grinder: n. 1. A {suit}-wearing minion of
the sort hired in legion strength by banks and insurance companies to
implement payroll packages in RPG and other such unspeakable horrors. In his
native habitat, the code grinder often removes the suit jacket to reveal an
underplumage consisting of button-down shirt (starch optional) and a tie. In
times of dire stress, the sleeves (if long) may be rolled up and the tie
loosened about half an inch. It seldom helps. The {code grinder}'s milieu is
about as far from hackerdom as you can get and still touch a computer; the
term connotes pity. see {Real World}, {suit}. 2. Used of or to a hacker, a
really serious slur on the person's creative ability; connotes a design style
characterized by primitive technique, rule-boundedness, and utter lack of
imagination. Compare {card walloper}. code police: [by analogy with `thought
police'] n. A mythical team of Gestapo-like storm troopers that might burst
into one's office and arrest one for violating style rules. May be used
either seriously, to underline a claim that a particular style violation is
dangerous, or ironically, to suggest that the practice under discussion is
condemned mainly by anal-retentive weenies. The ironic usage is perhaps more
common. codewalker: n. A program component that traverses other programs for
a living. Compilers have codewalkers in their front ends; so do
cross-reference generators and some database front-ends. Other utility
programs that try to do too much with source code may turn into codewalkers.
As in "This new `vgrind' feature would require a codewalker to implement."
coefficient of x: n. Hackish speech makes rather heavy use of
pseudo-mathematical metaphors. Four particularly important ones involve the
terms `coefficient', `factor', `index' and `quotient'. They are often loosely
applied to things you cannot really be quantitative about, but there are
subtle distinctions between them that convey information about the way the
speaker mentally models whatever he or she is describing. `Foo factor' and
`foo quotient' tend to describe something for which the issue is one of
presence or absence. The canonical example is {fudge factor}. It's not
important how much you're fudging; the term simply acknowledges that some
fudging is needed. You might talk of liking a movie for its silliness factor.
Quotient tends to imply that the property is a ratio of two opposing factors:
"I would have won except for my luck quotient." This could also be, "I would
have won except for the luck factor", but using *quotient* emphasises that it
was bad luck overpowering good luck. `Foo index' and `coefficient of foo'
both tend to imply that foo is, if not strictly measurable, at least
something that can be larger or smaller. Thus, you might refer to a paper or
person as having a `high bogosity index', whereas you would be less likely to
speak of a `high bogosity factor'. `Foo index' suggests that foo is a
condensation of many quantities, as in the mundane cost of living index;
`coefficient of foo' suggests that foo is a fundamental quantity, as in a
coefficient of friction. The choice between these terms is often one of
personal preference; e.g., some people might feel that bogosity is a
fundamental attribute and thus say "coefficient of bogosity", whereas others
might feel it is a combination of factors and thus say "bogosity index".
cokebottle: /kohk'bot-l/ n. Any very unusual character, particularly one that
isn't on your keyboard so you can't type it. MIT people used to complain
about the `control-meta-cokebottle' commands at SAIL, and SAIL people
complained right back about the `altmode-altmode-cokebottle' commands at MIT.
After the demise of the {space-cadet keyboard}, cokebottle faded away as
serious usage, but was often invoked humorously to describe an (unspecified)
weird or non-intuitive keystroke command. It may be due for a second inning,
however. The OSF/Motif window manager, mwm, has a reserved keystroke for
switching to the default set of keybindings and behavior. This keystroke is
(believe it or not) `control-meta-bang'. Since the exclamation point looks a
lot like an upside down coke bottle, Motif hackers have begun referring to
this keystroke as cokebottle. see also {quadruple bucky}.