 :cracker: n. One who breaks security on a system. Coined ca. 1985 by hackers
in defense against journalistic misuse of {hacker} (q.v., sense 8). An
earlier attempt to establish worm in this sense around 1981--82 on Usenet was
largely a failure. Use of both these neologisms reflects a strong revulsion
against the theft and vandalism perpetrated by cracking rings. The neologism
"cracker" in this sense may have been influenced not so much by the term
"safe-cracker" as by the non-jargon term "cracker", which in Middle English
meant an obnoxious person (e.g., "What cracker is this same that deafs our
ears / With this abundance of superfluous breath?" -- Shakespeare's King
John, Act II, Scene I) and in modern colloquial American English survives as
a barely gentler synonym for "white trash". While it is expected that any
real hacker will have done some playful cracking and knows many of the basic
techniques, anyone past {larval stage} is expected to have outgrown the
desire to do so except for immediate, benign, practical reasons (for example,
if it's necessary to get around some security in order to get some work
done). Thus, there is far less overlap between hackerdom and crackerdom than
the {mundane} reader misled by sensationalistic journalism might expect.
Crackers tend to gather in small, tight-knit, very secretive groups that have
little overlap with the huge, open poly-culture this lexicon describes;
though crackers often like to describe themselves as hackers, most true
hackers consider them a separate and lower form of life. An easy way for
outsiders to spot the difference is that crackers use grandiose screen names
that conceal their identities. Hackers never do this; they only rarely use
noms de guerre at all, and when they do it is for display rather than
concealment. Ethical considerations aside, hackers figure that anyone who
can't imagine a more interesting way to play with their computers than
breaking into someone else's has to be pretty {losing}. Some other reasons
crackers are looked down on are discussed in the entries on {cracking} and
{phreaking}. see also {samurai}, {dark-side hacker}, and {hacker ethic}. For
a portrait of the typical teenage cracker, see {warez d00dz}.