 :Bibliography: ************** Here are some other books you can read to help
you understand the hacker mindset. :G"odel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden
Braid: Douglas Hofstadter Basic Books, 1979 ISBN 0-394-74502-7 This book
reads like an intellectual Grand Tour of hacker preoccupations. Music,
mathematical logic, programming, speculations on the nature of intelligence,
biology, and Zen are woven into a brilliant tapestry themed on the concept of
encoded self-reference. The perfect left-brain companion to "Illuminatus".
:Illuminatus!: I. "The Eye in the Pyramid" II. "The Golden Apple" III.
"Leviathan". Robert Shea and Robert Anton Wilson Dell, 1988 ISBN
0-440-53981-1 This work of alleged fiction is an incredible
berserko-surrealist rollercoaster of world-girdling conspiracies, intelligent
dolphins, the fall of Atlantis, who really killed JFK, sex, drugs,
rock'n'roll, and the Cosmic Giggle Factor. First published in three volumes,
but there is now a one-volume trade paperback, carried by most chain
bookstores under SF. The perfect right-brain companion to Hofstadter's
"G"odel, Escher, Bach". see {Eris}, {Discordianism}, {random numbers},
{Church of the SubGenius}. :The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: Douglas
Adams Pocket Books, 1981 ISBN 0-671-46149-4 This `Monty Python in Space'
spoof of SF genre traditions has been popular among hackers ever since the
original British radio show. Read it if only to learn about Vogons (see
{bogon}) and the significance of the number 42 (see {random numbers}) -- and
why the winningest chess program of 1990 was called `Deep Thought'. :The Tao
of Programming: James Geoffrey Infobooks, 1987 ISBN 0-931137-07-1 This
gentle, funny spoof of the "Tao Te Ching" contains much that is illuminating
about the hacker way of thought. "When you have learned to snatch the error
code from the trap frame, it will be time for you to leave." :Hackers: Steven
Levy Anchor/Doubleday 1984 ISBN 0-385-19195-2 Levy's book is at its best in
describing the early MIT hackers at the Model Railroad Club and the early
days of the microcomputer revolution. He never understood Unix or the
networks, though, and his enshrinement of Richard Stallman as "the last true
hacker" turns out (thankfully) to have been quite misleading. Numerous minor
factual errors also mar the text; for example, Levy's claim that the original
Jargon File derived from the TMRC Dictionary (the File originated at Stanford
and was brought to MIT in 1976; the co-authors of the first edition had never
seen the dictionary in question). There are also numerous misspellings in the
book that inflame the passions of old-timers; as Dan Murphy, the author of
TECO, once said: "You would have thought he'd take the trouble to spell the
name of a winning editor right." Nevertheless, this remains a useful and
stimulating book that captures the feel of several important hackish
subcultures. :The Computer Contradictionary: Stan Kelly-Bootle MIT Press,
1995 ISBN 0-262-61112-0 This pastiche of Ambrose Bierce's famous work is
similar in format to the Jargon File (and quotes several entries from TNHD-2)
but somewhat different in tone and intent. It is more satirical and less
anthropological, and is largely a product of the author's literate and quirky
imagination. For example, it defines `computer science' as "a study akin to
numerology and astrology, but lacking the precision of the former and the
success of the latter" and `implementation' as "The fruitless struggle by the
talented and underpaid to fulfill promises made by the rich and ignorant";
`flowchart' becomes "to obfuscate a problem with esoteric cartoons". Revised
and expanded from "The Devil's DP Dictionary", McGraw-Hill 1981, ISBN
0-07-034022-6. :The Devouring Fungus: Tales from the Computer Age: Karla
Jennings Norton, 1990 ISBN 0-393-30732-8 The author of this pioneering
compendium knits together a great deal of computer- and hacker-related
folklore with good writing and a few well-chosen cartoons. She has a keen eye
for the human aspects of the lore and is very good at illuminating the
psychology and evolution of hackerdom. Unfortunately, a number of small
errors and awkwardnesses suggest that she didn't have the final manuscript
checked over by a native speaker; the glossary in the back is particularly
embarrassing, and at least one classic tale (the Magic Switch story, retold
here under {A Story About `Magic'} in Appendix A is given in incomplete and
badly mangled form. Nevertheless, this book is a win overall and can be
enjoyed by hacker and non-hacker alike. :The Soul of a New Machine: Tracy
Kidder Little, Brown, 1981 (paperback: Avon, 1982 ISBN 0-380-59931-7) This
book (a 1982 Pulitzer Prize winner) documents the adventure of the design of
a new Data General computer, the MV-8000 Eagle. It is an amazingly well-done
portrait of the hacker mindset -- although largely the hardware hacker --
done by a complete outsider. It is a bit thin in spots, but with enough
technical information to be entertaining to the serious hacker while
providing non-technical people a view of what day-to-day life can be like --
the fun, the excitement, the disasters. During one period, when the microcode
and logic were glitching at the nanosecond level, one of the overworked
engineers departed the company, leaving behind a note on his terminal as his
letter of resignation: "I am going to a commune in Vermont and will deal with
no unit of time shorter than a season." :Life with UNIX: a Guide for
Everyone: Don Libes and Sandy Ressler Prentice-Hall, 1989 ISBN 0-13-536657-7
The authors of this book set out to tell you all the things about Unix that
tutorials and technical books won't. The result is gossipy, funny,
opinionated, downright weird in spots, and invaluable. Along the way they
expose you to enough of Unix's history, folklore and humor to qualify as a
first-class source for these things. Because so much of today's hackerdom is
involved with Unix, this in turn illuminates many of its in-jokes and
preoccupations. :True Names ... and Other Dangers: Vernor Vinge Baen Books,
1987 ISBN 0-671-65363-6 Hacker demigod Richard Stallman used to say that the
title story of this book "expresses the spirit of hacking best". Until the
subject of the next entry came out, it was hard to even nominate another
contender. The other stories in this collection are also fine work by an
author who has since won multiple Hugos and is one of today's very best
practitioners of hard SF. :Snow Crash: Neal Stephenson Bantam, 1992 ISBN
0-553-56261-4 Stephenson's epic, comic cyberpunk novel is deeply knowing
about the hacker psychology and its foibles in a way no other author of
fiction has ever even approached. His imagination, his grasp of the relevant
technical details, and his ability to communicate the excitement of hacking
and its results are astonishing, delightful, and (so far) unsurpassed.
:Cyberpunk: Outlaws and Hackers on the Computer Frontier: Katie Hafner & John
Markoff Simon & Schuster 1991