 DISCORDIANISM, RANDOM NUMBERS, CHURCH OF THE SUB-GENIUS. The Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy Douglas Adams Pocket Books 1981, New York ISBN
0-671-46149-4 This Monty-Python-in-Space spoof of SF genre traditions has
been popular among hackers ever since the original British radio show. Read
it if only to learn about Vogons (see BOGONS) and the significance of the
number 42 (see RANDOM NUMBERS) --- also why the winningest chess program of
1990 was called DEEP THOUGHT. The Tao of Programming James Geoffrey Infobooks
1987, Santa Monica, ISBN 0-931137-07-1 This gentle, funny spoof of the
_Tao_Te_Ching_ contains much that is illuminating about the hacker way of
thought. "When you have learned to snatch the error code from the trap frame,
it will be time for you to leave." Hackers Steven Levy Anchor/Doubleday 1984,
New York ISBN 0-385-19195-2 Levy's book is at its best in describing the
early MIT hackers at the Model Railroad Club and the early days of the
microcomputer revolution. He never understood UNIX or the networks, though,
and his enshrinement of RMS as "the last hacker" turns out (thankfully) to
have been quite misleading. The Cuckoo's Egg Clifford Stoll Doubleday 1989,
New York ISBN 0-385-24946-2 Clifford Stoll's absorbing tale of how he tracked
Markus Hess and the Chaos Club cracking-ring nicely illustrates the
difference between `hacker' and `cracker'. And Stoll's portrait of himself
and his lady Barbara and his friends at Berkeley and on the Internet paints a
marvelously vivid picture of how hackers and the people around them like to
live and what they think. The Devil's DP Dictionary by Stan Kelly-Bootle
McGraw-Hill Inc, 1981 ISBN 0-07-034022-6 This pastiche of Ambrose Bierce's
famous work is similar in format to the Jargon File (and quotes several
entries from jargon-1) but somewhat different in tone and intent. It is more
satirical and less anthropological, and largely a product of the author's
literate and quirky imagination. For example, it defines "computer science"
as "A study akin to numerology and astrology, but lacking the precision of
the former and the success of the latter"; also as "The boring art of coping
with a large number of trivialities." The Devouring Fungus: Tales from the
Computer Age by Karla Jennings W. W. Norton 1990, New York ISBN 0-393-30732-8
The author of this pioneering compendium knits together a great deal of
computer and hacker-related folklore with good writing and a few well-chosen
cartoons. She has a keen eye for the human aspects of the lore and is very
good at illuminating the psychology and evolution of hackerdom.
Unfortunately, a number of small errors and awkwardnesses suggest that she
didn't have the final manuscript vetted by a hackish insider; the glossary in
the back is particularly embarrassing, and at least one classic tale (the
Magic Switch story in this file's Appendix A) is given in incomplete and
badly mangled form. Nevertheless, this book is a win overall and can be
enjoyed by hacker and non-hacker alike. True Names...and Other Dangers by
Vernor Vinge Baen Books 1987, New York ISBN 0-671-65363