 :Infinite-Monkey Theorem: n. "If you put an {infinite} number of monkeys at
typewriters, eventually one will bash out the script for Hamlet." (One may
also hypothesize a small number of monkeys and a very long period of time.)
This theorem asserts nothing about the intelligence of the one {random}
monkey that eventually comes up with the script (and note that the mob will
also type out all the possible incorrect versions of Hamlet). It may be
referred to semi-seriously when justifying a {brute force} method; the
implication is that, with enough resources thrown at it, any technical
challenge becomes a {one-banana problem}. This argument gets more respect
since {Linux} justified the {bazaar} mode of development. Other hackers
maintain that the Infinite-Monkey Theorem cannot be true -- otherwise Usenet
would have reproduced the entire canon of great literature by now. In
mid-2003, researchers at Plymouth Univesity in England actually put a working
computer in a cage with six crested macaques. The monkeys proceeded to bash
the machine with a rock, urinate on it, and type the letter S a lot (later,
the letters A, J, L, and M also crept in). The results were published in a
limited-edition book, Notes Towards The Complete Works of Shakespeare. A
researcher reported: "They were quite interested in the screen, and they saw
that when they typed a letter, something happened. There was a level of
intention there." Scattered field reports that there are AOL users this
competent have been greeted with well-deserved skepticism. This theorem has
been traced to the mathematiciamn Émile Borel in 1913, and was first
popularized by the astronomer Sir Arthur Eddington. It became part of the
idiom of techies via the classic SF short story Inflexible Logic by Russell
Maloney, and many younger hackers know it through a reference in Douglas
Adams's Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. Some other references have been
collected on the Web. On 1 April 2000 the usage acquired its own Internet
standard, RFC2795 (Infinite Monkey Protocol Suite).