 :Internet:: n.The mother of all networks. First incarnated beginning in 1969
as the ARPANET, a U.S. Department of Defense research testbed. Though it has
been widely believed that the goal was to develop a network architecture for
military command-and-control that could survive disruptions up to and
including nuclear war, this is a myth; in fact, ARPANET was conceived from
the start as a way to get most economical use out of then-scarce
large-computer resources. As originally imagined, ARPANET's major use would
have been to support what is now called remote login and more sophisticated
forms of distributed computing, but the infant technology of electronic mail
quickly grew to dominate actual usage. Universities, research labs and
defense contractors early discovered the Internet's potential as a medium of
communication between _humans_ and linked up in steadily increasing numbers,
connecting together a quirky mix of academics, techies, hippies, SF fans,
hackers, and anarchists. The roots of this lexicon lie in those early years.
Over the next quarter-century the Internet evolved in many ways. The typical
machine/OS combination moved from {DEC} {PDP-10}s and {PDP-20}s, running
{TOPS-10} and {TOPS-20}, to PDP-11s and VAXes and Suns running {Unix}, and in
the 1990s to Unix on Intel microcomputers. The Internet's protocols grew more
capable, most notably in the move from NCP/IP to {TCP/IP} in 1982 and the
implementation of Domain Name Service in 1983. It was around this time that
people began referring to the collection of interconnected networks with
ARPANET at its core as "the Internet". The ARPANET had a fairly strict set of
participation guidelines - connected institutions had to be involved with a
DOD-related research project. By the mid-80s, many of the organizations
clamoring to join didn't fit this profile. In 1986, the National Science
Foundation built NSFnet to open up access to its five regional supercomputing
centers; NSFnet became the backbone of the Internet, replacing the original
ARPANET pipes (which were formally shut down in 1990). Between 1990 and late
1994 the pieces of NSFnet were sold to major telecommunications companies
until the Internet backbone had gone completely commercial. That year, 1994,
was also the year the mainstream culture discovered the Internet. Once again,
the {killer app} was not the anticipated one - rather, what caught the public
imagination was the hypertext and multimedia features of the World Wide Web.
Subsequently the Internet has seen off its only serious challenger (the OSI
protocol stack favored by European telecoms monopolies) and is in the process
of absorbing into itself many of the proprietary networks built during the
second wave of wide-area networking after 1980. By 1996 it had become a
commonplace even in mainstream media to predict that a globally-extended
Internet would become the key unifying communications technology of the next
century. see also {the network}.