 :kremvax: /krem-vaks/ n. [from the then large number of {USENET} {VAXen}
with names of the form foovax] Originally, a fictitious USENET site at the
Kremlin, announced on April 1, 1984 in a posting ostensibly originated there
by Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko. The posting was actually forged by
Piet Beertema as an April Fool's joke. Other fictitious sites mentioned in
the hoax were moskvax and {kgbvax}. This was probably the funniest of the
many April Fool's forgeries perpetrated on USENET (which has negligible
security against them), because the notion that USENET might ever penetrate
the Iron Curtain seemed so totally absurd at the time. In fact, it was only
six years later that the first genuine site in Moscow, demos.su, joined
USENET. Some readers needed convincing that the postings from it weren't just
another prank. Vadim Antonov, senior programmer at Demos and the major poster
from there up to mid-1991, was quite aware of all this, referred to it
frequently in his own postings, and at one point twitted some credulous
readers by blandly asserting that he *was* a hoax! Eventually he even
arranged to have the domain's gateway site *named* kremvax, thus neatly
turning fiction into truth and demonstrating that the hackish sense of humor
transcends cultural barriers. [Mr. Antonov also contributed the
Russian-language material for this lexicon. -- ESR] In an even more ironic
historical footnote, kremvax became an electronic center of the
anti-communist resistance during the bungled hard-line coup of August 1991.
During those three days the Soviet UUCP network centered on kremvax became
the only trustworthy news source for many places within the USSR. Though the
sysops were concentrating on internal communications, cross-border postings
included immediate transliterations of Boris Yeltsin's decrees condemning the
coup and eyewitness reports of the demonstrations in Moscow's streets. In
those hours, years of speculation that totalitarianism would prove unable to
maintain its grip on politically-loaded information in the age of computer
networking were proved devastatingly accurate -- and the original kremvax
joke became a reality as Yeltsin and the new Russian revolutionaries of
`glasnost' and `perestroika' made kremvax one of the timeliest means of their
outreach to the West.