 LOGICAL [from the technical term "logical device", wherein a physical device
is referred to by an arbitrary name] adj. Understood to have a meaning not
necessarily corresponding to reality. E.g., if a person who has long held a
certain post (e.g., Les Earnest at SAIL) left and was replaced, the
replacement would for a while be known as the "logical Les Earnest". Compare
VIRTUAL, oppose PHYSICAL. This use of LOGICAL is an extension from its
technical use in computer science. A program can be written to do input or
output using a "logical device"; when the program is run, the user can
specify which "physical" (actual) device to use for that logical device. For
example, a program might write all its error messages to a logical device
called ERROR; the user can then specify whether logical device ERROR should
be associated to the terminal, a disk file, or the BIT BUCKET (to throw the
error messages away). Perhaps the word "logical" is used because even though
a thing isn't the actual object in question, you can reason logically about
the thing as if it were the actual object. At Stanford, "logical" compass
directions denoted a coordinate system in which "logical north" is toward San
Francisco, "logical west" is toward the ocean, etc., even though logical
north varies between physical (true) north near San Franscisco and physical
west near San Jose. (The best rule of thumb here is that El Camino Real by
definition always runs logical north-and-south.) In giving directions, one
might say, "To get to Rincon Tarasco restaurant, get onto El Camino Bignum
going logical north." Using the word "logical" helps to prevent the recipient
from worrying about that the fact that the sun is setting almost directly in
front of him. The concept is perpetuated by North American highways which are
almost, but not quite, consistently labelled with logical rather than
physical directions. A similar situation exists at MIT. Route 128 (famous for
the electronics industries that have grown up along it) is a three-quarters
circle surrounding Boston at a radius of ten miles, terminating at the
coastline at each end. It would be most precise to describe the two
directions along this highway as being "clockwise" and "counterclockwise",
but the road signs all say "north" and "south", respectively. A hacker would
describe these directions as "logical north" and "logical south", to indicate
that they are conventional directions not corresponding to the usual
convention for those words. (If you went logical south along the entire
length of route 128, you would start out going northwest, curve around to the
south, and finish headed due east!)