 :luser: /loo´zr/, n. [common] A {user}; esp. one who is also a {loser}.
({luser} and {loser} are pronounced identically.) This word was coined around
1975 at MIT. Under ITS, when you first walked up to a terminal at MIT and
typed Control-Z to get the computer's attention, it printed out some status
information, including how many people were already using the computer; it
might print "14 users", for example. Someone thought it would be a great joke
to patch the system to print "14 losers" instead. There ensued a great
controversy, as some of the users didn't particularly want to be called
losers to their faces every time they used the computer. For a while several
hackers struggled covertly, each changing the message behind the back of the
others; any time you logged into the computer it was even money whether it
would say "users" or "losers". Finally, someone tried the compromise
"lusers", and it stuck. Later one of the ITS machines supported luser as a
request-for-help command. ITS died the death in mid-1990, except as a museum
piece; the usage lives on, however, and the term luser is often seen in
program comments and on Usenet. Compare {mundane}, {muggle}, {newbie},
{chainik}. M M M$ macdink machoflops Macintoy Macintrash macro macro-
macrology maggotbox magic magic cookie magic number magic smoke mail storm
mailbomb mailing list main loop mainframe mainsleaze man page management
mandelbug manged mangle mangled name mangler manularity marching ants marbles
marginal marginally marketroid Mars martian massage math-out Matrix maximum
Maytag mode McQuary limit meatspace meatware meeces meg mega- megapenny MEGO
meltdown, network meme meme plague memetics memory farts memory leak memory
smash menuitis mess-dos meta meta bit metasyntactic variable MFTL mickey
mickey mouse program micro- MicroDroid microfortnight microLenat microReid
microserf Microsloth Windows Microsoft micros~1 middle-endian middle-out
implementation milliLampson minor detail MIPS misbug misfeature missile
address MiSTing miswart MMF mobo moby mockingbird mod mode mode bit modulo
mojibake molly-guard Mongolian Hordes technique monkey up monkey, scratch
monstrosity monty Moof Moore's Law moria MOTAS MOTOS MOTSS mouse ahead mouse
belt mouse droppings mouse elbow mouse pusher mouso MS-DOS mu MUD muddie
mudhead muggle Multics multitask mumblage mumble munch munching munching
squares munchkin mundane mung munge Murphy's Law music mutter