 :Mars: n. A legendary tragic failure, the archetypal Hacker Dream Gone
Wrong. Mars was the code name for a family of PDP-10 compatible computers
built by Systems Concepts (now, The SC Group); the multi-processor SC-30M,
the small uniprocessor SC-25M, and the never-built superprocessor SC-40M.
These machines were marvels of engineering design; although not much slower
than the unique {Foonly} F-1, they were physically smaller and consumed less
power than the much slower DEC KS10 or Foonly F-2, F-3, or F-4 machines. They
were also completely compatible with the DEC KL10, and ran all KL10 binaries,
including the operating system, with no modifications at about 2--3 times
faster than a KL10. When DEC cancelled the Jupiter project in 1983, Systems
Concepts should have made a bundle selling their machine into shops with a
lot of software investment in PDP-10s, and in fact their spring 1984
announcement generated a great deal of excitement in the PDP-10 world.
TOPS-10 was running on the Mars by the summer of 1984, and TOPS-20 by early
fall. Unfortunately, the hackers running Systems Concepts were much better at
designing machines than at mass producing or selling them; the company
allowed itself to be sidetracked by a bout of perfectionism into continually
improving the design, and lost credibility as delivery dates continued to
slip. They also overpriced the product ridiculously; they believed they were
competing with the KL10 and VAX 8600 and failed to reckon with the likes of
Sun Microsystems and other hungry startups building workstations with power
comparable to the KL10 at a fraction of the price. By the time SC shipped the
first SC-30M to Stanford in late 1985, most customers had already made the
traumatic decision to abandon the PDP-10, usually for VMS or UNIX boxes. Most
of the Mars computers built ended up being purchased by CompuServe. This tale
and the related saga of {Foonly} hold a lesson for hackers: if you want to
play in the {Real World}, you need to learn Real World moves.