 :MUD: /muhd/, n. [acronym, Multi-User Dungeon; alt.: Multi-User Dimension]
1. A class of {virtual reality} experiments accessible via the Internet.
These are real-time chat forums with structure; they have multiple
`locations' like an adventure game, and may include combat, traps, puzzles,
magic, a simple economic system, and the capability for characters to build
more structure onto the database that represents the existing world. 2. vi.
To play a MUD. The acronym MUD is often lowercased and/or verbed; thus, one
may speak of going mudding, etc. Historically, MUDs (and their more recent
progeny with names of MU- form) derive from a hack by Richard Bartle and Roy
Trubshaw on the University of Essex's DEC-10 in the early 1980s; descendants
of that game still exist today and are sometimes generically called
BartleMUDs. There is a widespread myth (repeated, unfortunately, by earlier
versions of this lexicon) that the name MUD was trademarked to the commercial
MUD run by Bartle on British Telecom (the motto: "You haven't lived 'til
you've died on MUD!"); however, this is false -- Richard Bartle explicitly
placed `MUD' in the public domain in 1985. BT was upset at this, as they had
already printed trademark claims on some maps and posters, which were
released and created the myth. Students on the European academic networks
quickly improved on the MUD concept, spawning several new MUDs (VAXMUD,
AberMUD, LPMUD). Many of these had associated bulletin-board systems for
social interaction. Because these had an image as `research' they often
survived administrative hostility to BBSs in general. This, together with the
fact that Usenet feeds were often spotty and difficult to get in the U.K.,
made the MUDs major foci of hackish social interaction there. AberMUD and
other variants crossed the Atlantic around 1988 and quickly gained popularity
in the U.S.; they became nuclei for large hacker communities with only loose
ties to traditional hackerdom (some observers see parallels with the growth
of Usenet in the early 1980s). The second wave of MUDs (TinyMUD and variants)
tended to emphasize social interaction, puzzles, and cooperative
world-building as opposed to combat and competition (in writing, these social
MUDs are sometimes referred to as `MU*', with `MUD' implicitly reserved for
the more game-oriented ones). By 1991, over 50% of MUD sites were of a third
major variety, LPMUD, which synthesizes the combat/puzzle aspects of AberMUD
and older systems with the extensibility of TinyMud. In 1996 the cutting edge
of the technology is Pavel Curtis's MOO, even more extensible using a
built-in object-oriented language. The trend toward greater programmability
and flexibility will doubtless continue. The state of the art in MUD design
is still moving very rapidly, with new simulation designs appearing
(seemingly) every month. Around 1991 there was an unsuccessful movement to
deprecate the term {MUD} itself, as newer designs exhibit an exploding
variety of names corresponding to the different simulation styles being
explored. It survived. see also {bonk/oif}, {FOD}, {link-dead}, {mudhead},
{talk mode}.