 :owned: 1. [cracker slang; often written "0wned"] Your condition when your
machine has been cracked by a root exploit, and the attacker can do anything
with it. This sense is occasionally used by hackers. 2. [gamers, IRC,
crackers] To be dominated, controlled, mastered. For example, if you make a
statement completely and utterly false, and someone else corrects it in a way
that humiliates or removes you, you are said to "have been owned" by that
person. When referring to games, "I own0r UT GOTYE" means that one has
mastered Unreal Tournament, Game of the Year Edition to such a level that
even the hardest AI characters are mere lunchmeat, and that no ordinary
mortal player would even receive a point in competition. There are several
spelling variants: 0wned, 0wn0r3d, even pwn0r3d. Hackers do not use this
sense. P P.O.D. packet over air padded cell page in page out pain in the net
paper-net param PARC parent message parity errors Parkinson's Law of Data
parm parse Pascal PascalCasing pastie patch patch pumpkin patch space path
pathological payware PBD PD PDP-10 PDP-11 PDP-20 PEBKAC peek pencil and paper
Pentagram Pro Pentium peon percent-S perf perfect programmer syndrome Perl
person of no account pessimal pessimizing compiler peta- pffft PFY phage
phase phase of the moon phase-wrapping PHB phreaker phreaking pico- pig-tail
pilot error ping Ping O' Death ping storm pink contract pink wire pipe pistol
pixel sort pizza box plaid screen plain-ASCII Plan 9 plan file
platinum-iridium playpen playte plokta plonk plug-and-pray plugh plumbing PM
point-and-drool interface pointy hat pointy-haired poke poll polygon pusher
POM ponytail pop poser post postcardware Postel's Prescription posting
postmaster PostScript pound on power cycle power hit pr0n precedence lossage
pred prepend prestidigitization pretty pictures prettyprint pretzel key
priesthood prime time print printing discussion priority interrupt profile
progasm proggy proglet program Programmer's Cheer programming programming
fluid propeller head propeller key proprietary protocol provocative
maintenance prowler pseudo pseudoprime pseudosuit psychedelicware psyton
pubic directory puff pumpkin holder pumpking punched card punt Purple Book
purple wire push Python