 :Pascal:: /n./ An Algol-descended language designed by Niklaus Wirth on the
CDC 6600 around 1967--68 as an instructional tool for elementary programming.
This language, designed primarily to keep students from shooting themselves
in the foot and thus extremely restrictive from a general-purpose-programming
point of view, was later promoted as a general-purpose tool and, in fact,
became the ancestor of a large family of languages including Modula-2 and
{{Ada}} (see also {bondage-and-discipline language}). The hackish point of
view on Pascal was probably best summed up by a devastating (and, in its
deadpan way, screamingly funny) 1981 paper by Brian Kernighan (of {K&R} fame)
entitled "Why Pascal is Not My Favorite Programming Language", which was
turned down by the technical journals but circulated widely via photocopies.
It was eventually published in "Comparing and Assessing Programming
Languages", edited by Alan Feuer and Narain Gehani (Prentice-Hall, 1984).
Part of his discussion is worth repeating here, because its criticisms are
still apposite to Pascal itself after ten years of improvement and could also
stand as an indictment of many other bondage-and-discipline languages. At the
end of a summary of the case against Pascal, Kernighan wrote: 9. There is no
escape This last point is perhaps the most important. The language is
inadequate but circumscribed, because there is no way to escape its
limitations. There are no casts to disable the type-checking when necessary.
There is no way to replace the defective run-time environment with a sensible
one, unless one controls the compiler that defines the "standard procedures".
The language is closed. People who use Pascal for serious programming fall
into a fatal trap. Because the language is impotent, it must be extended. But
each group extends Pascal in its own direction, to make it look like whatever
language they really want. Extensions for separate compilation, FORTRAN-like
COMMON, string data types, internal static variables, initialization, octal
numbers, bit operators, etc., all add to the utility of the language for one
group but destroy its portability to others. I feel that it is a mistake to
use Pascal for anything much beyond its original target. In its pure form,
Pascal is a toy language, suitable for teaching but not for real programming.
Pascal has since been almost entirely displaced (by {C}) from the niches it
had acquired in serious applications and systems programming, but retains
some popularity as a hobbyist language in the MS-DOS and Macintosh worlds.