 S. Raymond, approved by Guy Steele. Many items of UNIX, C, USENET and
microcomputer-based slang were added at that time (as well as The Untimely
Demise of Mabel The Monkey). Some obsolescent usages (mostly PDP-10 derived)
were moved to appendix B. Version 2.1.5, Nov 28 1990: changes and additions
by ESR in response to numerous USENET submissions and comment from the First
Edition coauthors. The bibliography (Appendix C) was also appended. Version
2.2.1, Dec 15 1990: most of the contents of the 1983 paper edition edited by
Guy Steele was merged in. Many more USENET submissions added, including the
International Style and <COMMONWEALTH HACKISH> material. Version 2.3.1, Jan
03 1991: the great format change --- case is no longer smashed in lexicon
keys and cross-references. A very few entries from jargon-1 which were
basically straight tech-speak were deleted; this enabled the rest of Appendix
B to be merged back into main text and the appendix replaced with the
Portrait of J. Random Hacker. More USENET submissions were added. Version
numbering: Read versions as <major>.<minor>.<revision>. Major version 1 is
reserved for the `old' (ITS) Jargon File, jargon-1. Major version 2
encompasses revisions by ESR with assistance from GLS. Someday, the next
maintainer will take over and spawn `version 3'. In general, later versions
will either completely obsolesce or incorporate earlier versions, so there is
generally no point in keeping old versions around. Our thanks to the other
co-authors of Steele-1983 for oveersight and assistance; also to all the
USENETters who contributed entries and encouragement. Special thanks go to
our Scandinavian correspondent Per Lindberg (per@front.se), author of the
remarkable Swedish language 'zine `Hackerbladet', for bringing FOO! comics to
our attention and smuggling the IBM hacker underground's own baby jargon file
out to us. Also, much gratitude to ace hacker/linguist Joe Keane
(jkg@osc.osc.com) for helping us improve the pronunciation guides; and to
Maarten Litmath for generously allowing the inclusion of the