 PPN /pip'@n/ 1. A combination of a "project identifier" and "programmer
name", used to identify a specific file directory belonging to that
programmer. This was used in the TOPS-10 operating system that DEC provided
for the PDP-10. The implicit assumption is that there will be many projects,
each with several programmers working on it, and that a programmer may work
on several projects. This is not a bad organization; what was totally BOGUS
is that projects and programmers were identified by octal (base eight)
numbers! Hence the term Project-Programmer Number, or PPN. If you were
programmer 72534 and wanted to work on project 306, you would have had to
tell the computer "login 306,72534". This was absurd. At CMU the TOPS-10
system was modified to be somewhat less ridiculous: projects were identified
by a letter and three decimal (not octal) digits, and programmers were
identified by his two initials, a digit indicating the first year he came to
CMU, and a fourth character that is used to distinguish between, say, Fred
Loser and Farley Luser who both happened to arrive the same year. So to use
the PDP-10 at CMU one might have said "login A780GS70". The programmer name
"GS70" was also called a "man number" at CMU, even though it isn't really a
number. At Stanford, projects and programmers were identified by three
letters or digits each: if Guy Steele werre to work on a LISP project at
Stanford, he might log in as "login lsp,gls". This was much more mnemonic.
Programmer identifiers at Stanford were usually the programmer's initials,
though sometimes it is a nickname or other three-letter sequence. Even though
the CMU and Stanford forms were not really (pairs of) numbers, the term PPN
was used to refer to the combination. 2. At Stanford, the term PPN was often
used loosely to refer to the programmer name alone. "I want to send you some
mail; what's your ppn?". This term is still used by old-timers on the
commercial time-sharing service CompuServe (which uses PDP-10s) but has long
since vanished from hackerdom. ITS and UNIX, of course, never used PPNs; ITS
had six-character UNAMEs, and UNIX has 15-character `usernames' and
hierararchical file system rather than project areas.