 :QWERTY: /kwer´tee/, adj. [from the keycaps at the upper left] Pertaining to
a standard English-language typewriter keyboard (sometimes called the Sholes
keyboard after its inventor), as opposed to Dvorak or non-US-ASCII layouts or
a {space-cadet keyboard} or APL keyboard. Historical note: The QWERTY layout
is a fine example of a {fossil}. It is sometimes said that it was designed to
slow down the typist, but this is wrong; it was designed to allow faster
typing -- under a constraint now long obsolete. In early typewriters, fast
typing using nearby type-bars jammed the mechanism. So Sholes fiddled the
layout to separate the letters of many common digraphs (he did a far from
perfect job, though; `th', `tr', `ed', and `er', for example, each use two
nearby keys). Also, putting the letters of `typewriter' on one line allowed
it to be typed with particular speed and accuracy for {demo}s. The jamming
problem was essentially solved soon afterward by a suitable use of springs,
but the keyboard layout lives on. The QWERTY keyboard has also spawned some
unhelpful economic myths about how technical standards get and stay
established; see http://www.reasonmag.com/9606/Fe.QWERTY.html. R rabbit job
rain dance rainbow series random Random Number God random numbers randomness
rape rare mode raster blaster raster burn rasterbation rat belt rat dance
rathole ratio site rave rave on! ravs raw mode RBL rc file RE read-only user
README file real real estate real hack real operating system Real Programmer
Real Soon Now real time real user Real World reality check reality-distortion
field reaper recompile the world rectangle slinger recursion recursive
acronym red wire regexp register dancing rehi reincarnation, cycle of
reinvent the wheel relay rape religion of CHI religious issues replicator
reply restriction retcon RETI retrocomputing return from the dead RFC RFE
Right Thing rip ripoff RL roach robocanceller robot robust rococo rogue
room-temperature IQ root root mode rootkit rot13 rotary debugger RSN RTBM
RTFAQ RTFB RTFM RTFS RTI RTM RTS rubber-hose cryptanalysis rude runes runic
rusty iron rusty wire