 RTM: /ahr-tee-em/ [USENET, acronym for `Read The Manual'] 1. Politer variant
of {RTFM}. 2. Robert T. Morris, perpetrator of the great Internet worm of
1988; villain to many, naive hacker gone wrong to a few. Morris claimed that
the worm which brought the Internet to its knees was a benign experiment that
got out of control due to a coding error. After the storm of negative
publicity that followed this blunder Morris's name on ITS was hacked from RTM
to {RTFM}. rude: [WPI] adj. 1. (of a program) Badly written. 2. Functionally
poor, e.g. a program which is very difficult to use because of gratuitously
poor (random?) design decisions. see {cuspy}. runes: pl.n. 1. Anything that
requires {heavy wizardry} or {black art} to {parse}; core dumps, JCL
commands, or even code in a language you hacen't a clue how to {parse}.
Compare {casting the runes}, {Great Runes}. 2. Special display characters
(for example, the high-half graphics on an IBM PC). runic: adj. Syn.
{obscure}. VMS fans sometimes refer to UNIX as `Runix'; UNIX fans return the
compliment by expanding VMS to `Very Messy Syntax' or `Vachement Mauvais
Systeme' (French, lit. "Cowlike Bad System", idiomatically "Bitchy Bad
System"). rusty iron: n. Syn. {tired iron}. It has been claimed that this is
the inevitable fate of {water MIPS}. rusty memory: n. Mass-storage that uses
iron-oxide-based magnetic media (esp. tape and the pre-Winchester removable
disk packs used in {washing machine}s). Compare {donuts}. = S = ===== s/n
ratio: n. (also `s:n ratio'). Syn. {signal-to-noise ratio}. Often abbreviated
`SNR'. sacred: adj. Reserved for the exclusive use of something (an extension
of the standard meaning). Often means that anyone may look at the sacred
object, but clobbering it will screw whatever it is sacred to. Example: The
comment "Register 7 is sacred to the interrupt handler." appearing in a
program would be interpreted by a hacker to mean if any *other* part of the
program changes the contents of register 7 dire consequences are likely to
ensue. saga: [WPI] n. A cuspy but bogus raving story dealing with N random
broken people. Here is a classic example of the saga form, as told by Guy L.
Steele: Jon L. White (login name JONL) and I (GLS) were office mates at MIT
for many years. One April we both flew from Boston to California for a week
on research business, to consult face-to-face with some people at Stanford,
particularly our mutual friend Richard P. Gabriel (RPG; see {Gabriel}). RPG
picked us up at the San Francisco airport and drove us back to Palo Alto
(going {logical} south on route 101, parallel to {El Camino Bignum}). Palo
Alto is adjacent to Stanford University, and about forty miles south of San
Francisco. We ate at The Good Earth, a `health food' restaurant, very
popular, the sort whose milkshakes all contain honey and protein powder. JONL
ordered such a shake --- the waitress claimed the flavor of the day was
"lalaberry". I still have no idea what that might be, but it became a running
joke. It was the color of raspberry, and JONL said it tasted rather bitter. I
ate a better tostada there than I have ever had in a Mexican restaurant.
After this we went to the local Uncle Gaylord's Old Fashioned Ice Cream
Parlor. They make ice cream fresh daily, in a variety of intriguing flavors.
It's a chain, and they have a slogan: "If you don't live near an Uncle
Gaylord's --- MOVE!" Also, Uncle Gaylord (a real person) wages a constant
battle to force big-name ice cream makers to print their ingredients on the
package (like air and plastic and other non-natural garbage). JONL and I had
first discovered Uncle Gaylord's the previous August, when we had flown to a
computer science conference in Berkeley, California, the first time either of
us had been on the West Coast. When not in the conference sessions, we had
spent our time wandering the length of Telegraph Street, which, like Harvard
Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in summer was lined with picturesque
street vendors and interesting little shops. On that street we discovered
Uncle Gaylord's Berkeley store. The ice cream there was very good. During
that August visit JONL went absolutely bananas (so to speak) over one
particular flavor, ginger honey. Therefore, after eating at The Good Earth
--- indeed, after every lunch and dinner and before bed during our April
visit --- a trip to Uncle Gaylord's (the one in Palo Alto) was mandatory. We
had arrived on a Wednesday, and by Thursday evening we had been there at
least four times. Each time JONL would get ginger honey ice cream, and
proclaim to all bystanders that "Ginger was the spice that drove the
Europeans mad! That's why they sought a route to the East! They used it to
preserve their otherwise off-taste meat." After the third or fourth
repetition RPG and I were getting a little tired of this spiel, and began to
paraphrase him: "Wow! Ginger! The spice that makes rotten meat taste good!"
"Say! Why don't we find some dog that's been run over and sat in the sun for
a week and put some *ginger* on it for dinner?!" "Right! With a lalaberry
shake!" And so on. This failed to faze JONL; he took it in good humor, as
long as we kept returning to Uncle Gaylord's. He loves ginger honey ice
cream. Now RPG and his wife KBT (Kathy Tracy) were putting us up (putting up
with us?) in their home for our visit, so to thank them JONL and I took them
out to a nice French restaurant of their choosing. I unadventurously chose
the filet mignon, and KBT had `je ne sais quoi du jour', but RPG and JONL had
`lapin' (rabbit). (Waitress: "`Oui', we have fresh rabbit, fresh today." RPG:
"Well, JONL, I guess we won't need any *ginger*!") We finished the meal late,
about 11 PM, which is 2 AM Boston time, so JONL and I were rather droopy. But
it wasn't yet midnight. Off to Uncle Gaylord's! Now the French resturant was
in Redwood City, north of Palo Alto. In leaving Redwood City, we somehow got
onto route 101 going north instead of south. JONL and I woudln't have known
the difference had RPG not mentioned it. We still knew very little of the
local geography. I did figure out, however, that we were headed in the
direction of Berkeley, and half-jokingly suggested that we continue north and
go to Uncle Gaylord's in Berkeley. RPG said "Fine!" and we drove on for a
while and talked. I was drowsy, and JONL actually dropped off to sleep for
five minutes. When he awoke, RPG said, "Gee, JONL, you must have slept all
the way over the bridge!" referring to the one spanning San Francisco Bay.
Just then we came to a sign that said "University Avenue". I mumbled
something about working our way over to Telegraph Street; RPG said "Right!"
and maneuvered some more. Eventually we pulled up in front of an Uncle
Gaylord's. Now I hadn't really been paying attention because I was so sleepy,
and I didn't really understand what was happening until RPG let me in on it a
few moments later, but I was just alert enough to notice that we had somehow
some to the Palo Alto Uncle Gaylord's after all. JONL noticed the resemblance
to the Palo Alto store, but hadn't caught on. (The place is lit with red and
yellow lights at night, and looks much different from the way it does in
daylight.) He said, "This isn't the Uncle Gaylord's I went to in Berkeley! It
looked like a barn! But this place looks *just like* the one back in Palo
Alto!" RPG deadpanned, "Well, this is the one *I* alwasy come to when I'm in
Berkeley. They've got two in San Francisco, too. Remember, they're a chain."
JONL accepted this bit of wisdom. And he was not totally ignorant --- he knew
perfectly well that University Avenue was in Berkeley, not far from Telegraph
Street. What he didn't know was that there is a completely different
University Avenue in Palo Alto. JONL went up to the counter and asked for
ginger honey. The guy at the counter asked whether JONL would like to taste
it first, evidently their standard procedure with that flavor, as not too
many people like it. JONL said, "I'm sure I like it. Just give me a cone."
The guy behind the counter insisted that JONL try just a taste first. "Some
people think it tastes like soap." JONL insisted, "Look, I /love/ ginger. I
eat Chinese food. I eat raw ginger roots. I already went through this hassle
with the guy back in Palo Alto. I *know* I like that flavor!" At the words
"back in Palo Alto" the guy behind the counter got a very strange look on his
face, but said nothing. KBT caught his eye and winked. Through my stupor I
still hadn't quite grasped what was going on, and thought RPG was rolling on
the floor laughing and clutching his stomach just because JONL had launched
into his spiel ("makes rotten meat a dish for princes") for the forty-third
time. At this point RPG clued me in fully. RPG, KBT, and I retreated to a
table, trying to stifle our chuckles. JONL remained at the counter, talking
about ice cream with the guy b.t.c., comparing Uncle Gaylord's to other ice
cream shops and generally having a good old time. At length the g.b.t.c.
said, "How's the ginger honey?" JONL said, "Fine! I wonder what exactly is in
it?" Now Uncle Gaylord publishes all his recipes and even teaches classes on
how to make his ice cream at home. So the g.b.t.c. got out the recipe, and he
and JONL pored over it for a while. But the g.b.t.c. could contain his
curiosity no longer, and asked again, "You really like that stuff, huh?" JONL
said, "Yeah, I've been eating it constantly back in Palo Alto for the past
two days. In fact, I think this batch is about as good as the cones I got
back in Palo Alto!" G.b.t.c. looked him straight in the eye and said, "You're
*in* Palo Alto!" JONL turned slowly around, and saw the three of us collapse
in a fit of giggles. He clapped a hand to his forehead and exclaimed, "I've
been {hack}ed!" sagan: /say'gn/ [from Carl Sagan's TV series `Cosmos'; think
`Billions and Billions'] n. A large quantity of anything. "There's a sagan
different ways to tweak EMACS." "The US Government spends sagans on bombs and
welfare --- hard to say which is more destructive."