 :saga: [WPI] n. A cuspy but bogus raving story about N random broken people.
Here is a classic example of the saga form, as told by Guy L. Steele: Jon L.
White (login name JONL) and I (GLS) were office mates at MIT for many years.
One April, we both flew from Boston to California for a week on research
business, to consult face-to-face with some people at Stanford, particularly
our mutual friend Richard P. Gabriel (RPG; see {Gabriel}). RPG picked us up
at the San Francisco airport and drove us back to Palo Alto (going {logical}
south on route 101, parallel to {El Camino Bignum}). Palo Alto is adjacent to
Stanford University and about 40 miles south of San Francisco. We ate at The
Good Earth, a `health food' restaurant, very popular, the sort whose
milkshakes all contain honey and protein powder. JONL ordered such a shake
--- the waitress claimed the flavor of the day was "lalaberry". I still have
no idea what that might be, but it became a running joke. It was the color of
raspberry, and JONL said it tasted rather bitter. I ate a better tostada
there than I have ever had in a Mexican restaurant. After this we went to the
local Uncle Gaylord's Old Fashioned Ice Cream Parlor. They make ice cream
fresh daily, in a variety of intriguing flavors. It's a chain, and they have
a slogan: "If you don't live near an Uncle Gaylord's --- MOVE!" Also, Uncle
Gaylord (a real person) wages a constant battle to force big-name ice cream
makers to print their ingredients on the package (like air and plastic and
other non-natural garbage). JONL and I had first discovered Uncle Gaylord's
the previous August, when we had flown to a computer-science conference in
Berkeley, California, the first time either of us had been on the West Coast.
When not in the conference sessions, we had spent our time wandering the
length of Telegraph Avenue, which (like Harvard Square in Cambridge) was
lined with picturesque street vendors and interesting little shops. On that
street we discovered Uncle Gaylord's Berkeley store. The ice cream there was
very good. During that August visit JONL went absolutely bananas (so to
speak) over one particular flavor, ginger honey. Therefore, after eating at
The Good Earth --- indeed, after every lunch and dinner and before bed during
our April visit --- a trip to Uncle Gaylord's (the one in Palo Alto) was
mandatory. We had arrived on a Wednesday, and by Thursday evening we had been
there at least four times. Each time, JONL would get ginger honey ice cream,
and proclaim to all bystanders that "Ginger was the spice that drove the
Europeans mad! That's why they sought a route to the East! They used it to
preserve their otherwise off-taste meat." After the third or fourth
repetition RPG and I were getting a little tired of this spiel, and began to
paraphrase him: "Wow! Ginger! The spice that makes rotten meat taste good!"
"Say! Why don't we find some dog that's been run over and sat in the sun for
a week and put some *ginger* on it for dinner?!" "Right! With a lalaberry
shake!" And so on. This failed to faze JONL; he took it in good humor, as
long as we kept returning to Uncle Gaylord's. He loves ginger honey ice
cream. Now RPG and his then-wife KBT (Kathy Tracy) were putting us up
(putting up with us?) in their home for our visit, so to thank them JONL and
I took them out to a nice French restaurant of their choosing. I
unadventurously chose the filet mignon, and KBT had je ne sais quoi du jour,
but RPG and JONL had lapin (rabbit). (Waitress: "Oui, we have fresh rabbit,
fresh today." RPG: "Well, JONL, I guess we won't need any *ginger*!") We
finished the meal late, about 11 P.M., which is 2 A.M Boston time, so JONL
and I were rather droopy. But it wasn't yet midnight. Off to Uncle Gaylord's!
Now the French restaurant was in Redwood City, north of Palo Alto. In leaving
Redwood City, we somehow got onto route 101 going north instead of south.
JONL and I wouldn't have known the difference had RPG not mentioned it. We
still knew very little of the local geography. I did figure out, however,
that we were headed in the direction of Berkeley, and half-jokingly suggested
that we continue north and go to Uncle Gaylord's in Berkeley. RPG said
"Fine!" and we drove on for a while and talked. I was drowsy, and JONL
actually dropped off to sleep for 5 minutes. When he awoke, RPG said, "Gee,
JONL, you must have slept all the way over the bridge!", referring to the one
spanning San Francisco Bay. Just then we came to a sign that said "University
Avenue". I mumbled something about working our way over to Telegraph Avenue;
RPG said "Right!" and maneuvered some more. Eventually we pulled up in front
of an Uncle Gaylord's. Now, I hadn't really been paying attention because I
was so sleepy, and I didn't really understand what was happening until RPG
let me in on it a few moments later, but I was just alert enough to notice
that we had somehow come to the Palo Alto Uncle Gaylord's after all. JONL
noticed the resemblance to the Palo Alto store, but hadn't caught on. (The
place is lit with red and yellow lights at night, and looks much different
from the way it does in daylight.) He said, "This isn't the Uncle Gaylord's I
went to in Berkeley! It looked like a barn! But this place looks *just like*
the one back in Palo Alto!" RPG deadpanned, "Well, this is the one *I* always
come to when I'm in Berkeley. They've got two in San Francisco, too.
Remember, they're a chain." JONL accepted this bit of wisdom. And he was not
totally ignorant --- he knew perfectly well that University Avenue was in
Berkeley, not far from Telegraph Avenue. What he didn't know was that there
is a completely different University Avenue in Palo Alto. JONL went up to the
counter and asked for ginger honey. The guy at the counter asked whether JONL
would like to taste it first, evidently their standard procedure with that
flavor, as not too many people like it. JONL said, "I'm sure I like it. Just
give me a cone." The guy behind the counter insisted that JONL try just a
taste first. "Some people think it tastes like soap." JONL insisted, "Look, I
*love* ginger. I eat Chinese food. I eat raw ginger roots. I already went
through this hassle with the guy back in Palo Alto. I *know* I like that
flavor!" At the words "back in Palo Alto" the guy behind the counter got a
very strange look on his face, but said nothing. KBT caught his eye and
winked. Through my stupor I still hadn't quite grasped what was going on, and
thought RPG was rolling on the floor laughing and clutching his stomach just
because JONL had launched into his spiel ("makes rotten meat a dish for
princes") for the forty-third time. At this point, RPG clued me in fully.
RPG, KBT, and I retreated to a table, trying to stifle our chuckles. JONL
remained at the counter, talking about ice cream with the guy b.t.c.,
comparing Uncle Gaylord's to other ice cream shops and generally having a
good old time. At length the g.b.t.c. said, "How's the ginger honey?" JONL
said, "Fine! I wonder what exactly is in it?" Now Uncle Gaylord publishes all
his recipes and even teaches classes on how to make his ice cream at home. So
the g.b.t.c. got out the recipe, and he and JONL pored over it for a while.
But the g.b.t.c. could contain his curiosity no longer, and asked again, "You
really like that stuff, huh?" JONL said, "Yeah, I've been eating it
constantly back in Palo Alto for the past two days. In fact, I think this
batch is about as good as the cones I got back in Palo Alto!" G.b.t.c. looked
him straight in the eye and said, "You're *in* Palo Alto!" JONL turned slowly
around, and saw the three of us collapse in a fit of giggles. He clapped a
hand to his forehead and exclaimed, "I've been hacked!" [My spies on the West
Coast inform me that there is a close relative of the raspberry found out
there called an `ollalieberry' --- ESR] [Ironic footnote: it appears that the
{meme} about ginger vs. rotting meat may be an urban legend. It's not borne
out by an examination of medieval recipes or period purchase records for
spices, and appears full-blown in the works of Samuel Pegge, a gourmand and
notorious flake case who originated numerous food myths. --- ESR]