 :SNAFU principle: /sna'foo prin'si-pl/ [from a WWII Army acronym for
`Situation Normal, All Fucked Up'] n. "True communication is possible only
between equals, because inferiors are more consistently rewarded for telling
their superiors pleasant lies than for telling the truth." --- a central
tenet of {Discordianism}, often invoked by hackers to explain why
authoritarian hierarchies screw up so reliably and systematically. The effect
of the SNAFU principle is a progressive disconnection of decision-makers from
reality. This lightly adapted version of a fable dating back to the early
1960s illustrates the phenomenon perfectly: In the beginning was the plan,
and then the specification; And the plan was without form, and the
specification was void. And darkness was on the faces of the implementors
thereof; And they spake unto their leader, saying: "It is a crock of shit,
and smells as of a sewer." And the leader took pity on them, and spoke to the
project leader: "It is a crock of excrement, and none may abide the odor
thereof." And the project leader spake unto his section head, saying: "It is
a container of excrement, and it is very strong, such that none may abide
it." The section head then hurried to his department manager, and informed
him thus: "It is a vessel of fertilizer, and none may abide its strength."
The department manager carried these words to his general manager, and spoke
unto him saying: "It containeth that which aideth the growth of plants, and
it is very strong." And so it was that the general manager rejoiced and
delivered the good news unto the Vice President. "It promoteth growth, and it
is very powerful." The Vice President rushed to the President's side, and
joyously exclaimed: "This powerful new software product will promote the
growth of the company!" And the President looked upon the product, and saw
that it was very good. After the subsequent disaster, the {suit}s protect
themselves by saying "I was misinformed!", and the implementors are demoted
or fired.