 TALK MODE n. The state a terminal is in when linked to another via a
bidirectional character pipe to support on-line dialogue between two or more
users. Talk mode has a special set of jargon words, used to save typing,
which are not used orally: BCNU Be seeing you. BTW By the way... BYE? Are you
ready to unlink? (This is the standard way to end a talk mode conversation;
the other person types BYE to confirm, or else continues the conversation.)
CUL see you later. ENQ? Are you busy? Expects ACK or NAK in return. FOO? A
greeting, also meaning R U THERE? Often used in the case of unexpected links,
meaning also "Sorry if I butted in" (linker) or "What's up?" (linkee). FYI
For your information... FYA For your amusement... GA Go ahead (used when two
people have tried to type simultaneously; this cedes the right to type to the
other). HELLOP A greeting, also meaning R U THERE? (An instance of the "-P"
convention.) JAM Just a minute... Equivalent to SEC... NIL No (see the main
entry for NIL). O Over to you (lower-case works too). OO Over and out
(lower-case works too). / Another form of "Over to you" OBTW Oh, by the
way... R U THERE? Are you there? SEC Wait a second (sometimes written
SEC...). T Yes (see the main entry for T). TNX Thanks. TNX 1.0E6 Thanks a
million (humorous). WTF The universal interrogative particle. WTF knows what
it means? WTH What the hell <double CRLF>When the typing party has finished,
he types two CRLFs to signal that he is done; this leaves a blank line
between individual "speeches" in the conversation, making it easier to
re-read the preceding text. <name>: When three or more terminals are linked,
each speech is preceded by the typist's login name and a colon (or a hyphen)
to indicate who is typing. The login name often is shortened to a unique
prefix (possibly a single letter) during a very long conversation. /\/\/\ A
giggle or chuckle (rare). Most of the above "sub-jargon" is used at both
Stanford and MIT. Several of these are also common in EMAIL, esp. FYI, FYA,
BTW, BCNU, and CUL. A few other abbreviations have been reported from
commercial networks such as GEnie and Compuserve where on-line `live' chat
including more than two people is common and usually involves a more `social'
context, notably <g> grin BRB be right back HHOJ ha ha only joking HHOS HA HA
ONLY SERIOUS LOL laughing out loud ROTF rolling on the floor AFK away from
keyboard b4 before CU l8tr see you later MORF Male or Female? TTFN ta-ta for
now OIC Oh, I see rehi hello again These are not used at universities or in
the UNIX world; conversely, most of the people who know these are unfamiliar
with FOO?, BCNU, HELLOP, NIL, and T.