 :zorkmid: /zork´mid/, n. The canonical unit of currency in hacker-written
games. This originated in {Zork} but has spread to {nethack} and is referred
to in several other games. Appendices Table of Contents A. Hacker Folklore
The Meaning of `Hack' TV Typewriters: A Tale of Hackish Ingenuity A Story
About `Magic' Some AI Koans Tom Knight and the Lisp Machine Moon instructs a
student Sussman attains enlightenment Drescher and the toaster OS and JEDGAR
The Story of Mel B. A Portrait of J. Random Hacker General Appearance Dress
Reading Habits Other Interests Physical Activity and Sports Education Things
Hackers Detest and Avoid Food Politics Gender and Ethnicity Religion
Ceremonial Chemicals Communication Style Geographical Distribution Sexual
Habits Personality Characteristics Weaknesses of the Hacker Personality
Miscellaneous C. Helping Hacker Culture Grow Bibliography Appendix A. Hacker
Folklore Table of Contents The Meaning of `Hack' TV Typewriters: A Tale of
Hackish Ingenuity A Story About `Magic' Some AI Koans Tom Knight and the Lisp
Machine Moon instructs a student Sussman attains enlightenment Drescher and
the toaster OS and JEDGAR The Story of Mel This appendix contains several
legends and fables that illuminate the meaning of various entries in the
lexicon. The Meaning of `Hack' "The word hack doesn't really have 69
different meanings", according to MIT hacker Phil Agre. "In fact, hack has
only one meaning, an extremely subtle and profound one which defies
articulation. Which connotation is implied by a given use of the word depends
in similarly profound ways on the context. Similar remarks apply to a couple
of other hacker words, most notably random." Hacking might be characterized
as `an appropriate application of ingenuity'. Whether the result is a
quick-and-dirty patchwork job or a carefully crafted work of art, you have to
admire the cleverness that went into it. An important secondary meaning of
hack is `a creative practical joke'. This kind of hack is easier to explain
to non-hackers than the programming kind. Of course, some hacks have both
natures; see the lexicon entries for pseudo and kgbvax. But here are some
examples of pure practical jokes that illustrate the hacking spirit: In 1961,
students from Caltech (California Institute of Technology, in Pasadena)
hacked the Rose Bowl football game. One student posed as a reporter and
`interviewed' the director of the University of Washington card stunts (such
stunts involve people in the stands who hold up colored cards to make
pictures). The reporter learned exactly how the stunts were operated, and
also that the director would be out to dinner later. While the director was
eating, the students (who called themselves the `Fiendish Fourteen') picked a
lock and stole a blank direction sheet for the card stunts. They then had a
printer run off 2300 copies of the blank. The next day they picked the lock
again and stole the master plans for the stunts -- large sheets of graph
paper colored in with the stunt pictures. Using these as a guide, they made
new instructions for three of the stunts on the duplicated blanks. Finally,
they broke in once more, replacing the stolen master plans and substituting
the stack of diddled instruction sheets for the original set. The result was
that three of the pictures were totally different. Instead of `WASHINGTON',
the word `CALTECH' was flashed. Another stunt showed the word `HUSKIES', the
Washington nickname, but spelled it backwards. And what was supposed to have
been a picture of a husky instead showed a beaver. (Both Caltech and MIT use
the beaver -- nature's engineer -- as a mascot.) After the game, the
Washington faculty athletic representative said: "Some thought it ingenious;
others were indignant." The Washington student body president remarked: "No
hard feelings, but at the time it was unbelievable. We were amazed." This is
now considered a classic hack, particularly because revising the direction
sheets constituted a form of programming. Here is another classic hack: On
November 20, 1982, MIT hacked the Harvard-Yale football game. Just after
Harvard's second touchdown against Yale, in the first quarter, a small black
ball popped up out of the ground at the 40-yard line, and grew bigger, and
bigger, and bigger. The letters `MIT' appeared all over the ball. As the
players and officials stood around gawking, the ball grew to six feet in
diameter and then burst with a bang and a cloud of white smoke. The Boston
Globe later reported: "If you want to know the truth, MIT won The Game." The
prank had taken weeks of careful planning by members of MIT's Delta Kappa
Epsilon fraternity. The device consisted of a weather balloon, a hydraulic
ram powered by Freon gas to lift it out of the ground, and a vacuum-cleaner
motor to inflate it. They made eight separate expeditions to Harvard Stadium
between 1 and 5 AM, locating an unused 110-volt circuit in the stadium and
running buried wires from the stadium circuit to the 40-yard line, where they
buried the balloon device. When the time came to activate the device, two
fraternity members had merely to flip a circuit breaker and push a plug into
an outlet. This stunt had all the earmarks of a perfect hack: surprise,
publicity, the ingenious use of technology, safety, and harmlessness. The use
of manual control allowed the prank to be timed so as not to disrupt the game
(it was set off between plays, so the outcome of the game would not be unduly
affected). The perpetrators had even thoughtfully attached a note to the
balloon explaining that the device was not dangerous and contained no
explosives. Harvard president Derek Bok commented: "They have an awful lot of
clever people down there at MIT, and they did it again." President Paul E.
Gray of MIT said: "There is absolutely no truth to the rumor that I had
anything to do with it, but I wish there were." The hacks above are
verifiable history; they can be proved to have happened. Many other
classic-hack stories from MIT and elsewhere, though retold as history, have
the characteristics of what Jan Brunvand has called `urban folklore' (see
FOAF). Perhaps the best known of these is the legend of the infamous
trolley-car hack, an alleged incident in which engineering students are said
to have welded a trolley car to its tracks with thermite. Numerous versions
of this have been recorded from the 1940s to the present, most set at MIT but
at least one very detailed version set at CMU. Brian Leibowitz has researched
MIT hacks both real and mythical extensively; the interested reader is
referred to his delightful pictorial compendium The Journal of the Institute
for Hacks, Tomfoolery, and Pranks (MIT Museum, 1990; ISBN 0-917027-03-5). The
Institute has a World Wide Web page at
http://hacks.mit.edu/Hacks/Gallery.html. There is a sequel entitled Is This
The Way To Baker House?. The Caltech Alumni Association has published two
similar books titled Legends of Caltech and More Legends of Caltech. Here is
a story about one of the classic computer hacks: Back in the mid-1970s,
several of the system support staff at Motorola discovered a relatively
simple way to crack system security on the Xerox CP-V timesharing system.
Through a simple programming strategy, it was possible for a user program to
trick the system into running a portion of the program in `master mode'
(supervisor state), in which memory protection does not apply. The program
could then poke a large value into its `privilege level' byte (normally
write-protected) and could then proceed to bypass all levels of security
within the file-management system, patch the system monitor, and do numerous
other interesting things. In short, the barn door was wide open. Motorola
quite properly reported this problem to Xerox via an official `level 1 SIDR'
(a bug report with an intended urgency of `needs to be fixed yesterday').
Because the text of each SIDR was entered into a database that could be
viewed by quite a number of people, Motorola followed the approved procedure:
they simply reported the problem as `Security SIDR', and attached all of the
necessary documentation, ways-to-reproduce, etc. The CP-V people at Xerox sat
on their thumbs; they either didn't realize the severity of the problem, or
didn't assign the necessary operating-system-staff resources to develop and
distribute an official patch. Months passed. The Motorola guys pestered their
Xerox field-support rep, to no avail. Finally they decided to take direct
action, to demonstrate to Xerox management just how easily the system could
be cracked and just how thoroughly the security safeguards could be
subverted. They dug around in the operating-system listings and devised a
thoroughly devilish set of patches. These patches were then incorporated into
a pair of programs called `Robin Hood' and `Friar Tuck'. Robin Hood and Friar
Tuck were designed to run as `ghost jobs' (daemons, in Unix terminology);
they would use the existing loophole to subvert system security, install the
necessary patches, and then keep an eye on one another's statuses in order to
keep the system operator (in effect, the superuser) from aborting them. One
fine day, the system operator on the main CP-V software development system in
El Segundo was surprised by a number of unusual phenomena. These included the
following: * Tape drives would rewind and dismount their tapes in the middle
of a job. * Disk drives would seek back and forth so rapidly that they would
attempt to walk across the floor (see walking drives). * The card-punch
output device would occasionally start up of itself and punch a `lace card'
(card with all positions punched). These would usually jam in the punch. *
The console would print snide and insulting messages from Robin Hood to Friar
Tuck, or vice versa. * The Xerox card reader had two output stackers; it
could be instructed to stack into A, stack into B, or stack into A (unless a
card was unreadable, in which case the bad card was placed into stacker B).
One of the patches installed by the ghosts added some code to the card-reader
driver... after reading a card, it would flip over to the opposite stacker.
As a result, card decks would divide themselves in half when they were read,
leaving the operator to recollate them manually. Naturally, the operator
called in the operating-system developers. They found the bandit ghost jobs
running, and killed them... and were once again surprised. When Robin Hood
was gunned, the following sequence of events took place: !X id1 id1: Friar
Tuck... I am under attack! Pray save me! id1: Off (aborted) id2: Fear not,
friend Robin! I shall rout the Sheriff of Nottingham's men! id1: Thank you,
my good fellow! Each ghost-job would detect the fact that the other had been
killed, and would start a new copy of the recently slain program within a few
milliseconds. The only way to kill both ghosts was to kill them
simultaneously (very difficult) or to deliberately crash the system. Finally,
the system programmers did the latter -- only to find that the bandits
appeared once again when the system rebooted! It turned out that these two
programs had patched the boot-time OS image (the kernel file, in Unix terms)
and had added themselves to the list of programs that were to be started at
boot time (this is similar to the way Windows viruses propagate). The Robin
Hood and Friar Tuck ghosts were finally eradicated when the system staff
rebooted the system from a clean boot-tape and reinstalled the monitor. Not
long thereafter, Xerox released a patch for this problem. It is alleged that
Xerox filed a complaint with Motorola's management about the merry-prankster
actions of the two employees in question. It is not recorded that any serious
disciplinary action was taken against either of them. Finally, here is a
wonderful hack story for the new millennium: 1990's addition to the hallowed
tradition of April Fool RFCs was RFC 1149, A Standard for the Transmission of
IP Datagrams on Avian Carriers. This sketched a method for transmitting IP
packets via carrier pigeons. Eleven years later, on 28 April 2001, the Bergen
Linux User's Group successfully demonstrated CPIP (Carrier Pigeon IP) between
two Linux machines running on opposite sides of a small mountain in Bergen,
Norway. Their network stack used printers to hex-dump packets onto paper,
pigeons to transport the paper, and OCR software to read the dumps at the
other end and feed them to the receiving machine's network layer. Here is the
actual log of the ping command they successfully executed. Note the
exceptional packet times. Script started on Sat Apr 28 11:24:09 2001
vegard@gyversalen:~$ /sbin/ifconfig tun0 tun0 Link encap:Point-to-Point
Protocol inet addr:10.0.3.2 P-t-P:10.0.3.1 Mask:255.255.255.255 UP
POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST MTU:150 Metric:1 RX packets:1 errors:0
dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 TX packets:2 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0
carrier:0 collisions:0 RX bytes:88 (88.0 b) TX bytes:168 (168.0 b)
vegard@gyversalen:~$ ping -i 450 10.0.3.1